Let's take a look at the details of the Lesson 3 project.
The purpose of this project is to show that everything
is not neat and nicely as it seems to be working right now,
there is a data race hidden in the code.
We have some shared resources,
which are _vehicles and _promises in the class WaitingVehicles.
We have several threads accessing them at
the same time and they are not protected currently.
By definition, this is a data race.
The data race always happens when we have access to
a shared resource where at least one of the accessing threads is writing.
Another one might be writing or reading, it doesn't matter,
but as soon as one thread is writing,
we are having a data race when the resource is not protected property.
This is a bug, and it is the idea of this project is to correct
this one bug and to prevent such a data race from causing any harm.
Also, as an afterthought,
as a second aspect of this project, currently,
we have some text output to the console,
or maybe you want to switch to the debug console with a less than one project,
and I'm sure you will see that many strings are mixed up.
One threat might be outputting something to the console,
and other thread might jump in also put out something,
which is in the middle of the other thread writing and
it's all jumbled up words which don't make any sense.
At least that's the case with some executions of the project.
We want this to look clean and nicely,
and this is the second job,
protect the console standard out so that printed strings are not mixed up.
Now, your task is to use the concept of mutex and locks to ensure that
the concurrent access of threads to
the shared resources is safe and does not cause data races.
Even though the graphical appearance of the project,
project will not change with regards to the last state in lesson two,
we will remove a critical bug here,
which is really a valuable addition to
the program even though it will probably not get noticed.
Let's move forward to see how the output is supposed to look like.
So as you can see here,
the output of the program has not changed,
we have those vehicles approaching the intersection entering one-by-one,
and now on the console,
we have this very nice output where
each vehicle which does something or the intersection does something,
is printing its information to the console.
Everything is in a nice order,
one after the other, there's nothing mixed up,
and that's exactly how a protected console
is supposed to look like for several threads or writing to.
Let's take a look at your tasks here.
So task L3.1, in class WaitingVehicles
please safeguard all accesses to the private members _vehicles as well as
_promises with an appropriate locking mechanism that will not cause a deadlock in
situations where access to the resource are accidentally blocked.
That's the first one. The second one is,
at a static mutex to the base class TrafficObject called _mtxCout,
and also properly instantiated in the source file.
This mutex will be used in the next task to protect standard output as we have just seen.
The last task L3.3,
in the method intersection,
addVehicleToQueue and also in Vehicle:: drive(),
please ensure that the text output locks
the console as a shared resource, as we have just seen.
Use a mutex _mtxCout,
you have added in the previous task and to the base class traffic object,
and make sure that in-between the two calls to send it out
at the beginning and at the end of addVehicleToQueue,
the lock is not held.
So those are your tasks for this lesson project here.
I wish you all the best again.
See you in the next lesson,
which is the last less than before the final project comes up.